What is Gitflow?
Gitflow is an alternative Git branching model that involves 
the use of feature branches and multiple primary branches. 
It was first published and made popular by Vincent Driessen 
at nvie. Compared to trunk-based development, Gitflow has 
numerous, longer-lived branches and larger commits. 
Under this model, developers create a feature branch 
and delay merging it to the main trunk branch until the 
feature is complete. These long-lived feature branches 
require more collaboration to merge and have a higher 
risk of deviating from the trunk branch. They can also 
introduce conflicting updates.

Gitflow can be used for projects that have a scheduled release cycle and for the DevOps best practice of continuous delivery. This workflow doesn’t add any new concepts or commands beyond what’s required for the Feature Branch Workflow. Instead, it assigns very specific roles to different branches and defines how and when they should interact. In addition to feature branches, it uses individual branches for preparing, maintaining, and recording releases. Of course, you also get to leverage all the benefits of the Feature Branch Workflow: pull requests, isolated experiments, and more efficient collaboration.
.
Getting Started
Gitflow is really just an abstract idea of a Git workflow. This means it dictates what kind of branches to set up and how to merge them together. We will touch on the purposes of the branches below. The git-flow toolset is an actual command line tool that has an installation process. The installation process for git-flow is straightforward. Packages for git-flow are available on multiple operating systems. On OSX systems, you can execute brew install git-flow. On windows you will need to download and install git-flow. After installing git-flow you can use it in your project by executing git flow init. Git-flow is a wrapper around Git. The git flow init command is an extension of the default git init command and doesn't change anything in your repository other than creating branches for you.
